---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Goals in Software Engineering
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-09-06
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - ICS 314
---

    My goal with software engineering is to be a full stack developer, being able to develop software on all levels. I think that this not only provides the best career opportunities, but it is also more fulfilling to know what is going on on all levels of a project, and to be capable of contributing to any part of a project. It seems to me that a software engineering class will be very helpful in this regard, teaching about both backend and frontend development using Javascript.
    My greatest interest that relates to computer science is data science. In particular, peoples’ opinions interest me the most. Live telephone surveys are the gold standard for measuring consumer sentiment, but telephone survey response rates are plummeting, causing prices to skyrocket. Collecting high quality data in an affordable way over the Internet is surely the solution to this problem, and it interests me.
    Being able to collect this type of cheap, high quality data will certainly involve software engineering. Maybe it will by building a survey platform that effectively and affordably targets respondents of a certain demographic. Or maybe it will involve artificial intelligence that can infer peoples’ opinions through their internet browsing, social media activity, and demographics. I’m not really sure, but it would be cool to be involved.


